  Assignment 3 Written Explanation : Excel Chart of Toronto Shelter Data
  
  source: https://open.toronto.ca/dataset/daily-shelter-overnight-service-occupancy-capacity/
  
  
    > What software did you use to create your data visualization?
        I used Excel to create this visualization.
    > Who is your intended audience? 
       The intended audience is government and shelters, as well as advocates for homelessness and anyone in the general public who wants to learn about homelessness and the shelter system in Toronto
    > What information or message are you trying to convey with your visualization? 
        The chart shows the how the usage of shelters in Toronto is always higher then their capapacity. It serves to highlight how underresourced our shelter system is. With the Population Serviced slider, you can also explore how certain populations have more access to shelters than others. For example, there is less space available for families and for women, compared to youth and men, which generally have enough capacity for the demand. It also serves to show that shelter usage is particularly high in the winter, likely due to the weather. One limitation of the data is that family shelters report on rooms, not beds, making exact capacity difficult to estimate. 
    > What aspects of design did you consider when making your visualization? How did you apply them? With what elements of your plots? 
        I wanted to show change over time, which I thought would be best shown with data summarized by months. I also chose to make the shelter usage and the capacity different types (line and bar, respectively), which helps to highlight the differences. Finally, I wanted to make the visualization interactive in some form, so I added a slicer that allows the data to be filtered by the types of populations serviced.
    > How did you ensure that your data visualizations are reproducible? If the tool you used to make your data visualization is not reproducible, how will this impact your data visualization? 
        I would not say that this a reproducible visualization. In order for someone else to get the exact same visualizations, they've have to apply the same transformations as I did, which are only shown in formulas of new columns. Given that one of my values is a calculated column summing Actual Capacity Beds and Actual Capacity Rooms, in order to get capacity data for all shelter populations, if that transformation is not replicated, they wouldn't get the same visualization. This chart would have to come with the written steps of transformation in order to be reproducible.
    > How did you ensure that your data visualization is accessible?  
        I used a software that is readily accesible, even to those who don't have a microsoft license, as it can also be opened by Google Sheets, which is free. For the colours, I chose high contrast colours that are visible for those with colour blindness. I also made sure the fonts were an appropriate size, and added the Data Table so that viewers could see the data side by side. The numbers are formatted so that they have a comma separator, for easier reading. Finally, I included an alt text description. Unfortunately, Excel does not have a reliable way to create visualizations that can go into dark mode, which is not great for those who prefer darker backgrounnds to read against, like myself.
    > Who are the individuals and communities who might be impacted by your visualization?  
        The individuals and communities impacted would be the homeless population of Toronto, as well as the shelters and shelter staff who service the population. This visualization is also important for government staff and homelessness advocates to show that gap between demand and availability. Finally, it could also impact the general public, as it is a piece of advocacy which teaches about the state of the shelter system.
    > How did you choose which features of your chosen dataset to include or exclude from your visualization? 
       I chose to include the date of the data, but as an aggregation per month. This makes it a lot easier to process in a visualization as supposed to hundreds of individual dates. I also chose to create a calculated column summing the actual capacity beds and actual capacity rooms, as not all shelters report capacity in the same way. I excluded information about the individual shelters, as I didn't think that level of granularity would add to the story I'm telling.
    > What ‘underwater labour’ contributed to your final data visualization product?
       All of this data is collected by shelter staff on a daily basis, which is a lot of time spent across all the shelters in the city. There is also the job of collecting all this data, processing it, and making it publibly available for use.