  Assignment 3 Written Explanation : Seaborn plot of Toronto Shelter usage
  
  source: https://open.toronto.ca/dataset/daily-shelter-overnight-service-occupancy-capacity/
  
  
    > What software did you use to create your data visualization?
        I used Seaborn and Matplotlib on python to create my visualization. My IDE is VSCode. I used a Jupyter notebook to create the visualization and then saved it as a PNG
    > Who is your intended audience? 
        My intended audience is government officials, shelter providers and homelessness advocates.
    > What information or message are you trying to convey with your visualization? 
        I wanted to explore shelter useage by demographics and the type of shelter. The data showed that there were a number of different shelter programs and that different shelters were for different populations. By showing the data as a heatmap, we can see how different populations use the shelter system, as well as areas in which we might be missing shelter services. The data shows that more adult men use the shelters than adult women and youth. It also shows that there are no specific winter programs for families, and that the mojority of programs for refugees are temporary. This data could be used, in conjunction with other data about homelessness, to ensure adequate numbers of shelters exist for each population. However, this data reflects the current shelters that exist and is of limited use in indicating if these services are sufficient to service all homeless populations in Toronto
    > What aspects of design did you consider when making your visualization? How did you apply them? With what elements of your plots? 
        I wanted to make sure that I created a visual which was relatively simple. I liked the idea of a heatmap as a way to not only show high usage by the numbers, but also by the colors. I also chose to make the visualization using a dark background, which actually helps make the areas that have no values more apparent. Against a white background, they would just show as blank and white, which would be confusing as white also indicates the highest values according to our heatmap legend.
    > How did you ensure that your data visualizations are reproducible? If the tool you used to make your data visualization is not reproducible, how will this impact your data visualization? 
        I have provided the code for my visualization, which uses an API to retrieve the data and then does all the necessary cleaning and transformation of the data within the same code in order to produce the same visualization.
    > How did you ensure that your data visualization is accessible?  
        As I mentioned before, I created the heatmap on a dark background. For me, this makes the visual more accessible since it provides high contrast and allows me to look at the visualization without causing distress from the bright colours (I'm autistic and bright colours can make it challenging to look at something). I also included the values in addition to the colours, which allows users who have colour imparied vision to still engage with the data shown. If I were to publish this on a website, I would make sure to include alt-text.
    > Who are the individuals and communities who might be impacted by your visualization?  
        This visualization has data that impacts homeless populations in Toronto, as well as the organizations that service them. A subsectt of the homeless population are regugees, so this also affects them. This data also impacts government planning, as it could be used to help determine appropriate budgets for the organizations that run shelters. 
    > How did you choose which features of your chosen dataset to include or exclude from your visualization? 
        There was a lot of data in the data set, and I found it hard to create a visualization that included the date data without overwhelming the viewer. I also knew that I wanted to use colour and I wanted to explore the types of services provided to the different homeless populations. Removing the specifics of the individual organizations that run the shelters, as well as the date, allowed me to summarize the data more succintly by summing the shelter usage values.
    > What ‘underwater labour’ contributed to your final data visualization product?
        A lot of individuals are involved in the creation of this dataset. All the staff at the shelters have to collect this data daily. It is a lot of data to collect and this is done for all the shelters in the city. At some point, someone had to have created the system that is used to input this data. The data then has to be brought together into a central database and then uploaded into the city's data portal. This data portal requires upkeep, meaning there is a division of city workers that is responsible for this.